# MyoPlay
    This repository currently contains the first version, working prototype of MyoPlay.
    Diabetes, Stroke, and Heart Disease, all of which are Metabolic Syndrome-related conditions, are among the top ten causes of death globally. Sarcopenia, the natural, age-related loss of muscle mass, is positively correlated to metabolic syndrome. Resistance Training is a proven intervention for both Sarcopenia and Metabolic Syndrome, but the current practice of resistance training is not accessible to many people suffering from these conditions because there is currently no effective system to ensure: safety, effectiveness, and enjoyment.
    MyoPlay combats Metabolic Syndrome and Sarcopenia through a fun, measurably effective, and reliably safe game. MyoPlay directly checks if the user is fatigued using surface electromyography. This makes resistance training more effective because the user knows he/she is doing the exercise incorrectly and can fix it. This also makes resistance training safer because the user knows when to take a break according to their muscle fatigue.
    MyoPlay is a game, not a gym. This makes it more accessible to people who don't have time to go to the gym or cannot afford a home gym. As the user completes repetitions, MyoPlay reveals a puzzle piece of the 36 piece puzzle and adds 10 points to their score. Completing one whole puzzle gives the user a total of 360 points, but over time they may accumulate unlimited points. The user must complete one puzzle every 70 hours, or their streak will break and all their points will be lost. 
    This project proves that a system as simple as a game has the potential to save millions of lives and prevent the loss of vision, limbs, and brain function.
